### Virus

A virus is a submicroscopic infectious agent that replicates only inside the living cells of an organism. Viruses infect all life forms, from animals and plants to microorganisms. The study of viruses is called vir-ology, which is a part of microbiology. Viruses consist of genetic materials surrounded by a protective coat of protein, so they are more difficult to kill than bac-teria. In the case of a minor ailment induced by a viral infection, the optimal strategy is to allow the malady to progress naturally. Is is crucial to recognize the antibiotics, designed to combat bacterial infections, lack efficacy against viral entities. Antibiotics do not kill viruses and the use of them just leads to antibiotic resistance.

Viruses spread in many ways. One transmission path-way is through disease-bearing organisms known as vectors. for example, viruses are often transmitted from plant to plant by insects that feed on plant sap, such as aphids; and viruses in animals can be carried by blood-sucking insects. Additionally, numerous viruses disperse through airborne paricles generated by respiratory activities such as coughing and sneezing. This airborne transmission is observed in pathogens smallpox, and measles. HIV is one of several viruses transmitted through sexual contact and by exposure to infected blood.

The immune System is a network of biological sys-tems that protects an organism from diseases. It de-tects and responds to a wide variety of pathogens, from viruses to parasitic worms, as well as cancer cells and objects such as wood splinters. The im-mune system employs layered defenses, increasing in specificty, to protect the host from infections. Physical barriers prevent pathogens such as bacteria and viruses from entering the organism. If a pathogen breaches these barriers, the innate immune system provides an immediate, but non-specific response. In instances where pathogens effectively elude the innate line of defense known as the adaptive immune system. Here, the immune system adapts its response during an infection to improve its recognition of the pathogen. This improved response is then retained after the pathogen has been eliminated, in the form of an immunological memory, and allows the adaptive immune system to mount faster and stronger attacks each time this pathogen is encountered.

A vaccine is a preparation that is used to stimulate the body's immune response against diseases. The safety and efficacy of vaccines have undergone extensive scrutiny and validation. Typically, a vaccine comprises an agent that resembles a pathogenic microorganism and is derived from attenuated or inactivated forms of the microbe, its toxins, or one of its surface proteins. This agent serves to elicit a response from the body's immune system, facilitating its recognition, destruction, and the development of immunological memory to guard against the perceived threat. Vaccination is considered as the most effective means of preventing infectious diseases.


- [ ] submicroscopic
- [ ] infectious
- [ ] microorganism
- [ ] microbiology
- [ ] consist of ~
- [ ] ailment
- [ ] induce
- [ ] optimal
- [ ] malady
- [ ] antibiotic
- [ ] lead to ~
- [ ] antibiotic resistance
- [ ] vector
- [ ] feed on ~
- [ ] disperse
- [ ] airborne
- [ ] generate
- [ ] respiratory
- [ ] observe
- [ ] pathogen
- [ ] SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2)
- [ ] HIV(Human Immunodeficiency Virus)
- [ ] exposure
- [ ] immune system
- [ ] detect
- [ ] parasitic
